---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "conduktor_gateway_interceptor_v2 Resource - conduktor"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# conduktor_gateway_interceptor_v2 (Resource)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the interceptor, must be unique, act as ID for import

### Optional

- `scope` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--scope))
- `spec` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--spec))

<a id="nestedblock--scope"></a>
### Nested Schema for `scope`

Optional:

- `group` (String) The name of the group the interceptor will be applied to. Optional parameter to helps defining the scope
- `username` (String) The username the interceptor will be applied to. Optional parameter to helps defining the scope
- `vcluster` (String) The name of the virtual cluster the interceptor will be applied to. Optional parameter to help defining the scope


<a id="nestedblock--spec"></a>
### Nested Schema for `spec`

Optional:

- `comment` (String) An optional comment for the interceptor.
- `config` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--spec--config))
- `plugin_class` (String) The class of the plugin
- `priority` (Number) The priority of the interceptor. Must be bigger than 0

<a id="nestedatt--spec--config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `spec.config`

Optional:

- `enable_audit_log_on_error` (Boolean) Flag to enable audit log when error happens.
- `external_storage` (Boolean) Flag to store encryption settings externally in a topic.
- `schema_data_mode` (String) Defines whether to preserve Avro schema format or convert to JSON.
- `schema_registry_config` (Attributes Map) Configuration for Schema Registry to handle Avro, JSON, and Protobuf records. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--spec--config--schema_registry_config))
- `topic` (String) Topics that match this regex will have the interceptor applied. Defaults to all.

<a id="nestedatt--spec--config--schema_registry_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `spec.config.schema_registry_config`

Required:

- `host` (String) URL of the schema registry.

Optional:

- `additional_configs` (Map of String) Additional properties mapped to specific security-related parameters. For enhanced security, use environment variable templates like ${MY_ENV_VAR}.
- `cache_size` (Number) This interceptor caches schemas locally so that it doesn't have to query the schema registry.
